that was a very respectful burnout to
make sure they weren't hitting us with
mud
last November we went to Iran we wanted
to get out of the capital and talk to
the people about sanctions America and
life of the Islamic Republic
Western media projects an image that
women in Iran are repressed they don't
have freedoms they can't swim in the
ocean freely you have a message for
people in the West for the giver
phenomena De Aza the Dutch - I marked a
charge Abraham Hollywood at emotional
damage to party
Shannon but in German Sarah who we came
up to do colleges washing machine
for the last 40 years
the US and Iranian governments have been
at odds and for the most part we only
see Iran ian's on the news chanting
death to America here on the southern
beaches we were already seeing a very
different ear on our trip coincided with
the 40th anniversary of the hostage
crisis when Iranian students took 52
Americans hostage inside the US Embassy
in Tehran holding them for 444 days
those events a generation ago created
hatred between the u.s. and Iran that
still lingers today between meeting
hardline radicals at the celebrations
for the anniversary and getting off the
beaten path this is a look inside the
Iran you might not always see on TV
[Music]
against the freedom of 50 American
hostages is mental state and physical
condition remain a mystery
well maybe return to Europe
the shop is
[Music]
and I promise you every legitimate means
to free were loved ones from pepper they
keep calling us the quench doesn't
bother us sticks and stones Iran and
Libya are two of the most dangerous
supporters of terrorism in the world
they pay the price oppression tyranny
must be destroyed
we don't want that government the
mistake to believe that the revolution
against the Shah was purely religious
states like these and their terrorist
allies constitute an axis of evil arming
to threaten the Peace of the world to
president I decidedly law confidently
the United States will withdraw from the
Iran nuclear deal
we're about to walk into the the grand
bazaar it's it's bustling trying to
cross the street
try not to get Jay killed at the same
time nice pomegranates
it's like six kilometers long and
ancient since 1979 sanctions imposed on
Iran by the US and the international
community have been gradually ramping up
but now under President Trump's policy
of so-called maximum pressure the
country is banned from buying and
selling almost everything on world
markets I mean it kind of makes sense
when you walk through a place like this
that the Iranians even though they are
suffering from what they describe as
economic terrorism or economic warfare
but they're also like sanctions nations
which survive for so long before we'll
be fine it's a known thing that Persian
rugs are of the best quality in the
world and we're in started by amazing
carpets with the recent sanctions
they've specifically said in America
that Persian rugs are not allowed but
here they're like no big deal we'll just
send it to our buddy in Dubai he'll
repack it send it to the states
door-to-door no problem so they're not
really sweating
[Music]
[Laughter]
getting so ashamed what is it mrs. cash
digital signatures
[Music]
so we are doing the cliched thing at the
spice market and the grand bazaar at
Tehran and we got half right
I have special requests from home in New
York and things I need to bring home
they kind of don't even know the house
sauce
Iran is unlike any other country in the
Middle East alongside an incredibly deep
tradition with literature art and
culture and despite 40 years of
sanctions they have subways and make
their own cars their automotive industry
it's the second biggest industry in the
country gasses eight cents a litre so
the streets are packed traffic is gnarly
all the time you don't see multinational
mega chains which some would argue is
the upside of being sanctioned and
regardless of people's politics the
revolution that took place 40 years ago
has defined their modern identity and
you see it all over town so in our bid
to understand Iran beyond just its
capital we figured what better way to
meet people than the confined space of a
cross-country train journey
we needed to go to the very south and
that just happened to be the last stop
the Iranian regime is the leading state
sponsor of terror it exports dangerous
missiles fuels conflicts across the
Middle East and supports terrorist
proxies and militias such as Hezbollah
Hamas the Taliban we came at a time when
tensions had reached an all-time high
since Trump came into office and tore up
Obama's Iran policy coupled with his war
mongering rhetoric suffice to say that
relations are awful right now
you know Trump just came in and he's
wanted to see like you Obama like
this was a bad bad deal were pulled
unilaterally pulled out of this thing
that everybody had worked on and
everyone agreed was a very good thing
let's go to the dunny County car to see
we request
[Music]
how do the people in Iran feel about the
future right now
the hopeful Marvel me you don't have my
argument because occasionally de Guiche
Catina gonna find hope in see us at a
duel at Oscar boys mashiki man got my
sample at least I'm getting it a
foursome are gonna be of take care
Nemus Alanya medida que llora halibut in
the door she know you nayana sanctions
were imposed what was the impact when
the yellow an MD and she give you just
kind of unclear ahead of it today I
think Iran has done a lot better than a
lot of other countries who would have
been in the same situation
hey the premium respect this
when can't we Bob are you ready big as
my forehead our local producer caddy is
also a documentary filmmaker who lives
in Tehran she seen these issues from
every angle
to Iranian still see America as the
Great Satan that was a thing before
right you know that there to America
just a boy
[Music]
so sometimes you know we are on their
sanction
we are suffering from lack of medicine
something for daily routine life we
don't have so when they say that my
America it comes from somewhere it's
kind of ingrained in people when they
like Iran or Iran is like an unstable
actor they can't be trusted it's a
dangerous country it's all these things
but we are not dangerous it's a safe
country but but you know maybe it's
happened because of their behavior with
us for three years yeah
we have sanctions people on their
sanction and we deal with this yeah this
is the Iranian culture this dining car
is getting very colorful now the disco
lights the train has stopped
everyone is disembarked because it's
prayer time and this is where people are
doing wazoo and this is their little
railway mosque
[Music]
by the second day people really started
warming up to us
[Music]
we're very far from the kind of depth to
America
antara
[Music]
hmm finally 22 hours later
let's see thank you
so we're here right on the Strait of
Hormuz and the UAE is directly across in
Oman very close to Dubai in Saudi Arabia
closer to Riyadh than we are to Tehran
at this point from what I saw a Bundoora
bus it felt like an entirely different
country from Tehran a weird hybrid
between an Emirati Gulf state in the
South Asian country not the Iran that I
had visited before
the city sits on the strait of hormuz a
strategically vital waterway through
which Iran exerts control over 1/3 of
the world's oil and historically the
Strait has long been the set of conflict
between the US and its allies going all
the way back to the days of the Cold War
it's saying that any disruption in the
streets of the Strait has effectively
controlled by the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps or IRGC goods and services
flow through those oil waterways and
people want to see that commerce to the
shadowy military organization which
Trump is classified is the terrorist
group for their sake they don't do
anything foolish
they do they will pay a price like
nobody's ever paid a price he thrust the
group into the spotlight in January by
assassinating one of their top
commanders we wanted to speak with the
IRGC but their press office hadn't been
returning to her calls so we tried to
chase down their commander after a
speech
[Music]
did you leave already everybody's
chasing the commander of the
Revolutionary Guard now we're about to
all walk into traffic it looks like
he said the dog is the brother of the
Fox seriously he shut me down didn't
want to talk to me but we've tracked out
his predecessor and he's invited us to
his home and will talk to us which is
great if you look at the some picture
for example I know it was in Afghanistan
yeah
do you mean the war between the Soviet
Union this is neither in the rock with
me before the war so you were the head
of IRGC during the war
yeah so you're like the top guy how many
and how many troops did you have
reporting to you how many people were
you call this whole of the entire
operation of the yes earlier this year
the Trump administration designated the
IRGC as a terrorist organization which
was unprecedented what is what are your
thoughts on that
hope support posted on the lava tsunami
that I saw so much in health care as
most as Afeni Don you're the Falcone
Cassone kashfaris from each college
should kiss Annika Moretti's or satin
mom because then I guess my intro to the
far as mathematician or a massage fellow
away from Taylor Wisman a very shaky
body from very moto a lot co-ceo before
my father terrorist boudin
kuzuki-kun like me gonna wear military
came over the state Americans on the
subject of truant from you know his
rhetoric towards Iran its it escalates
and the D escalates and Billy goes up
and down and seems a lot worse than it
was during the Obama administration
but I'm curious what you think the
implications would be
if Trump actually does attack Iran what
would happen tally the manager has
Muhammad Iran draw our tronky left un
homme Hotel in Nanjing sashimi tuna ammo
a lawyer
Enrico Yi Columbus's most ashore on a
white rum has tan venomous fish could
guarantee are in earthdome range on
bidet column enter the agenda for such a
petraju story
jiangha far sushi at the Rose Motel
Frankie burrata mission and a male
raccoon attack didn't SME based on the
hotel motoyama kouji nsk more technical
[Music]
everyone is testing each other in the
Strait of Hormuz that's all right we
needed to see it for ourselves so we're
going I'm on a boat into the Strait of
Hormuz it's been a lot of action over
this year in the Strait a lot of tankers
have been getting attacked iran's been
getting blamed for it like a Japanese in
Norwegian tanker we're talking Ron
denies if an irani and tanker was seized
by the British business that they were
shipping crude oil to Syria she was a
violation of sanctions and then Iran
kind of retaliated and messed with a
British tanker so this is all been
happening in the last few months so
there's a lot of action on there right
now like one-third of the world's oil
supply goes through the Strait of Hormuz
so we're gonna go check out the tankers
the Revolutionary Guard also controls
the area and so they will
to them
[Music]
so Iran is with the current sake since
Iran is banned from trading oil with
anyone but from the amount of takers you
see but wherever you see red lines of
the takers that means that they are
empty then oil has been dropped off so
there is a lot of oil trading hands and
the Revolutionary Guard and that had a
naval warship right there is going
around controlling checking out the
different international tankers
another thing that's been happening is
that the Chinese ships have been turning
off their transponders and that allows
them to then kind of steam along and
transport oil in secret and then you
have to you know the Brits the Americans
saying don't let that Chinese tanker
report here because it's got Iranian
crude oil on it so Iran has made it very
clear that regardless of sanctions they
will not stop selling oil to wants to
buy oil from them and they said that the
international community has no right to
tell Iran that they can't do that
basically to you you're going to
say to us we're gonna sell our oil
as in
[Music]
[Applause]
so we're just pulling out a funder poll
going to catch them after starts and
stops in other cities finally on a ferry
late at night
it's kind of a otic here there's a big
safety first side and it's felt anything
but say people jumping onto ferries
after they've already left the shore we
actually got hit by a like a barge but
and now we're packed like sardines
obviously
[Laughter]
[Music]
our hotel was actually housing for
workers at an adjacent shipyard who were
building luxury yachts before sanctions
caused their investors to pull out we
were talking to some fishermen this
morning and they said that you know the
sanctions are affecting their ability to
get the gear that they need to do their
jobs
we're talking to you now and it's shut
down your entire business it feels like
the sanctions really are having an
impact on Iran that would you agree with
that yeah our da moon but if to the
department as in a booth abolition would
control it he'll Dinky model try the
caution of Seleucid care system in
Europe but Anna would care to him are
hella with him Keaney
the subhash's watch over her in the in
the technically but do firemen sauce did
he get us reading more I gave me a true
traveler or Tim it's on the same solid
otaku regime in Russia but you know
Michelle - Nicola beyond to Iran but
Arjuna kisara was already whom they
would then meet accident as tacky muy
complicado jolly good career don't have
it
September soon moving him massive attack
in what she machine judo Salaamu de at a
start-up wolf managed to get testing
understand anybody shot a worker was
always but her from the power was sure
the biggest our mission of all was our
care they know she can't eat a carrot
how does it feel when you walk into your
shipyard and you see this half-finished
yacht here that's been sitting here for
15 plus years that because in one day
someone back to me goes tell me my name
of every new you're a baby now because
man back in Iran good job
Iijima co-anchor amo loom Elena Perez
deposit yo man Narada schemata me Ronald
Martin in position and/or editor of
Eddie base of associated or an editor of
abscess piranhas but we're in turkey
McKay
[Music]
that's nice
we catch them
[Music]
the strait of hormuz it's on the news
all the time as this international
flashpoint where is World War 3 gonna
kick off the reality is it's where the
Iranians come and hang out and it's
super goodbye
[Music]
after what felt like a little vacation
in the south of Iran it was time to head
back to the city
[Music]
but before we went to the 40th
anniversary event at the former US
Embassy we wanted to see the shrine of
the Ayatollah Khomeini he was the guy
who 40 years ago led the revolution
through which he molded the psychology
of modern Iran creating the country we
see today
achievement
I'm trying to get one where the
reflections not on us surrett the
ayatollah khomeini shrine and it is an
epic place its scale is massive it's a
two billion dollar project that they
started 30 years ago and it's still
unfinished he was the guy who brought
what the West calls radical Islam to the
world and in the modern era I can't
think of a leader who's been more
defiant towards the west and towards
America specifically him his spirit of
defiance has cast a very long shadow oh
yeah Hasan
[Music]
they have some pretty great coffee mugs
prayer beads swag Khomeini swag I want a
picture of a t-shirt of Khomeini when he
was young the trip was really good too
okay so let's get two of those mugs two
of these and if we get another pair be
two of these
[Music]
Booya
in 1979 when radical students took over
this American Embassy they look to
Jimena for approval this embassy was the
biggest embassy that America had
anywhere in the world
it's pretty crazy he could have shut
down the siege but instead gave His
blessing I'm just thinking out things
change right like in the 50s we're just
gonna build this huge thing
it's like 26 acres I like that they left
the seal on the front of the building
though here we go into the den of spies
the decision created the bitter
animosity between the u.s. and Iran that
continues to this day
arms transfers these are the documents
that they found and pieced back together
it was there proof that it was a
espionage going on here from the Bureau
of intelligence and research
confidential not releasable to foreign
nationals and what the Strait of Hormuz
as the control point for Persian Gulf
tanker transit there are still radical
students in the embassy it's been turned
into a strange museum used to
indoctrinate young Iranians an
anti-american ideology oh this is cool
server room
hseyin shaykh al-islam was one of the
ringleaders of the hostage crisis and
allegedly its chief torturer what you
say student together okay this is what
they are going to do we go and take over
the embassy we say give us the shot
we give you the hostages and we wait for
48 hours 72 hours if Imam Khomeini
supported we continue and then imam
khomeini subtitles i support them we're
in Tehran was in front of the embassy
supporting their students because sure
has done so many bad thing to us that we
wanted to put it right for him there's
so many reports though about what
happened like that it it was translation
that what to interrogation
they went to torture it was that you
personally was involved with torture no
no no it wasn't it torture no no it
wasn't it torture you know other torture
no it to church because it was an order
from him oh I'm not saying because I was
so the law they were they're lying no
doubt they were lying they made him some
of the other students have gone on
record to say that they regret it was
the right thing to do I think still it
is the United State who is doing to
mistake toward Iran no next we spoke to
one of Sheikh al-islam comrades who is
now one of Iran's most senior
politicians at the car she was
one of the big players in the hostage
crisis the hostages are in our hands and
we protect them strongly and we are
ready so that in the case of any
military intervention we will destroy
that she was the spokesperson for the
hostages and also a translator there we
go
[Music]
you
you said yourself that if there was an
attack on this embassy that you would
destroy the hostages could you really do
that
yes we mean it madam vice president is
that the right way to refer to you all
right thank you for taking the time with
us today
you as a young activist along with your
comrades and your generation had a very
very significant impact in shaping the
country what do you say to the these
young activists today who are fighting
for things that you might not be in
agreement with we have to see everything
in the historical context that it took
place those early days of the revolution
the youth at that time they were
listening to what was happening in the
world in terms of all the anti
imperialist movements and even the young
generation today they understand very
well how these terrible sanctions today
inflicted by the American government are
hampering the the advancement of our
society and preventing them from finding
decent jobs or from the economic
advances that they expect their
societies to have but not all the anger
on the streets of Iran is fueled by
sanctions one precursor to the current
protests was the white Wednesday
movement women protesting the mandatory
wearing of the hijab or Islamic
headscarf what do you say to the young
women who say that we don't have enough
freedoms and the women and the
white Wednesday movement we don't want
to wear our head scarp sitting after the
Islamic Revolution in Iran we have a set
of regulations and norms in our society
based on our religious values and the
majority of the Iranian people cherish
those values those values are not meant
to restrict a woman or men but they're
meant to ensure that there is a dignity
that's preserved in relationships
between men and women and that
harassment does not occur in our society
the practice of modesty and dress
modesty and behavior campaigns which are
directed from abroad mostly or they're
meant to to bring a different paradigm
which is usually western-oriented they
won't be
accepted by the majority of the society
after the embassy was captured artists
painted the walls with anti-american
murals for the 40th anniversary they
unveiled new ones seems that the regime
has doubled down on revolution
there's no moderation here really this
one here they're at the table but the
American diplomat is wearing fatigues
and combat boots there's no Trump up
there Bush looks a little weird this one
is kind of heavy it's got a nod to
Israel
LSD America is depraved the country
everybody shootin dope and taking LSD
doctor they're not shooting dope in this
country is that a mustache or Trump's
hair from the gun
Trump's air on the gun okay so one
reference to trauma Mickey boss with the
gun McDonald's serving up barbed wire
and the Statue of Liberty's torch which
has been extinguished and smoke is just
coming out
this one's just bad it's like Brooklyn
Student Art Show the impotent gun before
the rally we wanted to meet with some
young people in one of the little cafes
we'd been having lunch at
like they named this restaurant cafe to
Cafe yeah I can't
what is the name of this company - et
Street talking version of Tehran yeah
what president truck got mad at Ravana
he said fine I'm against when you hear
that what is it you have enough freedom
Maradona hey job
she's a who be a fair occasionally they
get to go home tonight
other than to be bearish on us but
luckily today as yet mature - humming
coffee mr. astell especially our
elemental dr. Ranger and gatherin
freedom as a man is to hang that but
okay but but let the women scream do you
agree with him
this is like a part of you it's just
because we have so many limits this
white Wednesday I've heard oh I've only
heard a little bit about it what do you
think of it
talk about really such a sensitive
subject it's so there's a famous quote
that says we used to drink in public and
pray in private but now we pray in
public and green in private
he's on young again care you know how
much boy yeah how much we're not
tourists and any true attack that's
happened in the u.s. no onions were
involved and this discrimination is kind
of hurts our family but everyone loves
us are you gonna go to the embassy
tomorrow most of them are made to the
idea that they would attend the rally
was comical to them and when we saw it
for ourselves that made sense I think
this could be a lot of this these like
buses they bust people in from townships
angry students who've been fed
propaganda their whole lives young kids
had been bussed in from the outskirts
for a fun propaganda day street fair of
anti-semitic and anti-american
activities sorta balloons I think
this is the anti-semitic booth the the
Angry Birds destroy star David also
known as happy birds so we've got a
massive slingshot set up shoot at the
Star of David in front of this fancy
words it's like an amusement park I mean
it's kind of like they're making it fun
for kids with all the activities they're
getting up early the older kids weren't
lags the younger gives it to me
it's like Iranian County Fair
[Music]
the emotions are really wrapping up here
all Trump's recent rhetoric has really
increased the anti-american sentiment in
Iran right now now granted this is a
gathering of hardliners but it's pretty
below
yesterday important the 40-year
anniversary of the students taking
control of what is now the former US
Embassy because 40 years ago as students
like me said that there must be no
American presence in Iran they put an
end to this this seems to be one of the
standard activities at the anniversary
but stopping on the American flags what
does it say on your hands the burning of
the flag stopping on the American flag
effigies just anti-american sentiment at
a fever pitch intensity or they've
modernized the message why are you here
today and giving the young generation
that kind of revolutionary philosophy
and spirit to carry into the future for
the next 40 years at the rally Iran's
official ideology seemed as alive as
ever
[Music]
he's just got really heavy really fast
but away from the camera
people often at a very different point
of view the thing is we've spoken to so
many people who have a lot of fear about
being honest and telling us how they
really feel you know a couple women who
refused to talk to us we're saying it's
not just we told how to dress but how to
think
and that kind of subjective mind control
seems to be a running game so and what
they're afraid of is any gotten that
president over there which is where all
the the political prisoners were sent
it's called I mean it's kind of the
legendary terrifying place that nobody
wants to them it had been an eye-opening
trip from hardliners to hipsters it
seemed everyone was frustrated but not
with regular people with governments and
policy Americas and the road
[Music]
so we are at the practice space for an
Iranian death metal bed called chaos
descent tensions between the u.s. and
Iran haven't been this high since 1979
and we should probably get out of plate
and go home
these were the only American used for in
the country right now it's probably not
wise to be here but we had one last
thing to shoot it was these guys chaos
dissent and so you know priorities
because
[Music]
unions have kind of private freedom you
know we can do all the things in our
houses our parties but not out of them
right is it illegal for you to play
concert kinda yeah it's not illegal to
play a gig or live a life concerts is
kind of brutality nigga you know you can
have a live gig with jazz of fusion
we got work out right but metal is
completely alone right someone check
your lyrics someone check your music
sometimes I don't know why they tell us
this music is satanic and I don't know
what kind of relationship with the
museum Satan this is the political
situation in Iran and internationally
kids in their 20s you know like the
younger ones teenagers in the 2000 Bay
are they politically engaged uh yeah but
you know we have a situation here new
generation is so depressed people do not
act
about their situation about to change
the situation
they just sit and watch the whole
happening in the country but yeah the
name of you been chaos descent yeah in
[Music]
your situation will reflect in your arts
you saved a lot of lives by terminating
his life
we can lie live easy you can tell the
truth the evidence indicates that the
plane was shot down by an Iranian
surface-to-air missile and are things
getting better or worse
I could say well really Iran confirmed
more than 800 new cases on Tuesday
bringing the total to over 2,300 it also
seems that senior officials are not
immune to the virus either thank you for
talking to us had a good day best of
luck
I'm a Sebastian
so it kind of describes the world yeah
[Music]
heaven
I realized the pursuit of peace is not
as dramatic as the pursuit of war and
frequently the words of the pursuers
fall on deaf ears
[Music]